Q: When neurons are briefly active, what does theBOLD response do over time?
A: This is called the HRF - for Haemodynamic ResponseFunction

Q: Magnetic direction of Longitudinal
A: parallel to the magnetic field

Q: Magnetic direction of Transverse
A: perpendiculat to the magnetic field

Q: What does the RF pulse do?
A: This causes the phases of all the spins to tipover, and aligns their phases

Q: Which magnetic direction decreases and which increases under an RF pulse?
A: The longitudinal M decreases, and a strong transversal M is created.

Q: The restoration of M in the longitudinal direction causes
A: exponential increase with time constant T1

Q: The decay of M in the transverse direction:
A: exponential decrease with time constant T2

Q: What is TR?
A: changing howoften we excitethe nuclei, aninterval called TR

Q: What is TE?
A: when we readout signals afterexcitation (TE)

Q: How do you get T2*?
A: Combine  T2 with local inhomogenities in the field

Q: How do we use T2* for experimental hypothesis?
A: We relate changes in T2* values to our experimental manipulations

Q: Does BOLD measure neuronal activation?
A: No it measures metabolistic demands and has in indrect relation with neuronal activation

Q: How do we compensate for the fact that the experiment stimulus is direct while BOLD happens somewhat late?
A: We convolve the singular peak of the experiment with the HRF to get a continuous response over time

Q: What are the 3 HRF (Haemodynamic Response Function) phases?
A: 1. Initial dip by neuronal usage 2. oversupply of oxyginated blood 3. post-stimulus undershoot

Q: What is the trade-off of increasing TR?
A: longer means more signal but a lower temporal frequency (kinda added together)

Q: What is the trade-off of decreasing voxel size?
A: Less signal per voxel (less clear) but of course higher speatial precision (i.e. spatial frequency)

Q: What are two alternatives to a fixed HRF, using regressors?
A: 1. Finite Impulse Response where each timepoint is a regressor which estimates HRF very well 2. With frequencies where every frequency is a regressor