Q: What are the two methods of anatomical connectivity?
A: Parcellation and tractogaphy

Q: On what 3 things can parcellation be based?
A: 1. Myelin content of 3 images 2. Combination of location to atlas, curvature and thickness 3. Based on task FMRI

Q: How did old tractography work?
A: Animals where injected with rabies virus. After X delay the animal was killed and the amount of synapses crossed by the virus was checked. So you find out what connects to injected site.

Q: What is the name of modern tractography?
A: Tractography DTI

Q: How does tractography DTI work?
A: Check water with the scanner at T1 check if it has moved in a certain direction in T2. Axon bundles constrain diffusion of water to a single direction.

Q: What are different measurements used in tractography DTI?
A: Fractional anisotropy (amount of diffusion assymmetry) and Local orientation of bundels (Direction)

Q: Why the emphasis on connectivity?
A: BOLD only told us activation in an area not what happened in other brain regions and the connections

Q: What is Resting state fMRI and how can we us eit for connectivity?
A:It is the BOLD signal while not performing a task and it allows us to correlate different regions with each other.

Q: What is independent componenent analysis?
A: Statistical method that extracts maximamally independent patterns of coherent fMRI activit which are then linearly mixed in with the data

Q: What do the components from ICA consist of?
A: A timecourse and an associated spatial map

Q: What is parcellation?
A: Determining ROI's borders

Q: How does parcellation based on images work?
A: Different types of images for example divide T1 by T2 which gives myelin. So different images allows us to determine cell types in areas.

Q: How does parcellation based on curvature and thickness work?
A: You see a thick and a thin region and separate them based on this criteria.

Q: How does parcellation based on task FMRI work?
A: DIfferent tasks show different region activations

Q: What is the difference between parcellation and tractography?
A: Parcellation divides the brain in regions, tractography looks at the connections between these regions

Q: What is the idea behind ICA? Example components?
A: The idea is that a signal is a combination of components (e.g. machine noise, taks, arousals, pulsations)

Q: What is the benefit of ICA?
A: You can use it to denoise the data or use it for seeing which brain regions co-flutuate and determine different ressting state networks